Extend Source map article with example (#37163)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/source_map/index.md

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> A **source map** is a non-standard {{Glossary("JSON")}} file format that maps between minified or transformed code received by the browser and its original unmodified form, allowing the original code to be reconstructed and used when debugging.

Reviewer: oh yeah!

  li {
    display: inline;
  }
}
```

During the build process, the SCSS is transformed into CSS.
A source map file `index.css.map` is generated and linked to from the CSS in a comment at the end:

```css
ul {
  list-style: none;
}
ul li {
  display: inline;
}

/*# sourceMappingURL=index.css.map */
```

This map file contains not only mappings between the original SCSS and the generated CSS but also the original SCSS source code in encoded form. It's ignored by the browser's CSS parser but used by browser's DevTools:

```json
{
  "version": 3,
  "sourceRoot": "",
  "sources": ["index.scss"],
  "names": [],
  "mappings": "AAAA;EACC;;AACA;EACC",
  "file": "index.css"
}
```

The source map allows the browser's DevTools to link to specific lines in the original SCSS file and display the source code:

![Firefox DevTools focused on the li element in the DOM inspector. The style panel shows transformed CSS without nesting and a link to the third line of the index.scss file.](inspector.png)

![Firefox DevTools with the index.scss file opened in the style editor. The editor is focused on the source code's third line in SCSS format with nesting.](style-editor.png)

## See also

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- [Source map format specification](https://tc39.es/ecma426/2024/)
```

{{GlossarySidebar}}

A **source map** is a non-standard {{Glossary("JSON")}} file format that maps between minified or transformed code received by the browser and its original unmodified form, allowing the original code to be reconstructed and used when debugging.

Code executed by the browser is often transformed in some way from the original source created by a developer. There are several reasons for this:

- To make delivering code from the server more efficient by combining and minifying source files.
- To support older browsers by transforming modern features into older equivalents.

> - To use more feature-rich languages that browsers don't understand, like {{Glossary("TypeScript")}} or [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To use languages that browsers don't support, like {{Glossary("TypeScript")}} or [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/).
```

In these situations, debugging the original source is much easier than the source in the transformed state that the browser has downloaded.

## Example

For example, consider this SCSS syntax of Sass:

```scss
ul {
  list-style: none;
  li {
    display: inline;
  }
}
```

> During the build process, before delivering the CSS to the browser, the SCSS is transformed into CSS and a source map file `index.css.map` is generated and linked from the CSS file in the comment at the end:

Reviewer: Minor one for readability if you like it:

```suggestion
During the build process, the SCSS is transformed into CSS.
A source map file `index.css.map` is generated and linked to from the CSS in a comment at the end:
```

```css
ul {
  list-style: none;
}
ul li {
  display: inline;
}

/*# sourceMappingURL=index.css.map */
```

This map file contains not only mappings between the original SCSS and the generated CSS but also the original SCSS source code in encoded form. It's ignored by the browser's CSS parser but used by browser's DevTools:

```json
{
  "version": 3,
  "sourceRoot": "",
  "sources": ["index.scss"],
  "names": [],
  "mappings": "AAAA;EACC;;AACA;EACC",
  "file": "index.css"
}
```

> This allows browser DevTools not only show the resulted CSS in the inspector, but also link to the specific line in the source SCSS file and show it:

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is much better, but a small suggestion:

```suggestion
The source map allows the browser's DevTools to follow the display the page CSS in the inspector, link to the specific line in the original SCSS file, and display the SCSS:
```

Author: Agree, it can be simplified. How about this one?

```suggestion
The source map allows the browser's DevTools to link to specific lines in the original SCSS file and display the source code:
```

{{GlossarySidebar}}

A **source map** is a non-standard {{Glossary("JSON")}} file format that maps between minified or transformed code received by the browser and its original unmodified form, allowing the original code to be reconstructed and used when debugging.

Code executed by the browser is often transformed in some way from the original source created by a developer. There are several reasons for this:

- To make delivering code from the server more efficient by combining and minifying source files.
- To support older browsers by transforming modern features into older equivalents.
- To use languages that browsers don't support, like {{Glossary("TypeScript")}} or [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/).

> In these situations, debugging the original source is much easier than the source in the transformed state that the browser has downloaded.

Reviewer: What do you think about this?

```suggestion
In these situations, debugging the original source is much easier than the source in the transformed state that the browser has downloaded.
Browsers detect a source map via the {{HTTPHeader("SourceMap")}} HTTP header for a resource, or a `sourceMappingURL` annotation in the generated code. 
```

## Example

For example, consider this SCSS syntax of Sass:

```scss
ul {
  list-style: none;
  li {
    display: inline;
  }
}
```

During the build process, the SCSS is transformed into CSS.

> A source map file `index.css.map` is generated and linked to from the CSS in a comment at the end:

Reviewer: oh, we should also mention the header: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/SourceMap

Reviewer: Commented a suggestion above
